---
layout: post
title:  "Allow me to introduce myself"
date:   2020-04-09 03:10:12 -0500
categories: jekyll update
---
My name is Roberto Treviño Cervantes, I am an 18 year old teenager, deeply concerned with the future of humanity, particularly, the one where we achieve General Artificial Intelligence.

I live in Monterrey, an industrial city, in the heart of Nuevo León, a state in northeastern Mexico. Coming from a deeply religious family, I had a hard time growing up, as I expressed discontent and deviated from tradition. Today, I am deeply interested in philosophy, mostly existentialism, while I also dip my toes in literature by trying acclaimed classics. I try to lead a healthy lifestyle combining that with a rigorous routine of daily exercise and careful nutrition, consuming exact proportions from each macronutrient group.

As as short way to get to know myself, I am a hopeless romantic, in all of the senses of the word, because just as I may fall in love too quickly, I always stand by my ideals passionately. And surprisingly, it turns out that the despicable part of human nature continues to exist in the world of the Internet, with big companies having increasing market shares of the Ad business on the web, we have become a dystopian society, where each of our decisions, each of our likings and actions are most certainly being tracked. My mission, which I self-imposed, is to protect the spark that would allow us to improve, and progress as a society: information.

There has never been a time in history where as much information as today was readily available for the majority of people, thus, it should not come as a surprise that this is also the time where most services have been centralized and taken away from public control. As such, now, more than ever before, we should push the companies at control to listen to the user, and not revenue, to retake a more humane approach to society. But, as that may, rationally, sound a bit off, it is up to us, and only us, the people that make up the web, to support free, open-source software.

Enter, FUTURE, a search engine built for the needs of a new generation. Whilst previous solutions relied on naturally inaccurate methods that leaned towards lexicographical comparison, like looking for keywords on webpages to find what were supposed to be the best matches to a query, FUTURE neglects that approach from its core, as it is instead based on machine learning algorithms that allow it to capture meaning in high-dimensional vectors, therefore providing the exact results the user had in mind. To further enhance the experience, FUTURE is aided by a chatbot that allows to deepen and improve the quality of search results by performing intelligent command approximation and sentiment analysis on the conversation.

But, how does that mean a better web experience? Well, first of all, as a search engine is the main gateway to the rest of the information on the Internet, a quality experience is crucial, one which prioritizes the authenticity and relevancy of the information presented. And, perhaps more importantly, that FUTURE drops the paradigm of invading the privacy of the user, collecting data to provide "better results" and more revenue with personalized ads, no, FUTURE instead relies solely on the query to extract all meaning and intent, with its advanced natural language processing technology, which does not require complex databases tracking the user to provide good results. Furthermore, it completely hides information from Internet Service Providers and even the browser's history, aided with AJAX.

To wrap it up, what does the project have to do with my description? Well, I have been deeply invested on it since I first learned to program when I was 12 years old, and since then I have only focused on adding funcionalities and improving it, in hopes of one day, watching it become a full-fledged company. On upcoming posts I will certainly go deeper in its evolution, but for now, this entry should leave no doubt on the intent of the blog, which is to provide a safe space to analyze and discuss the implications on freedom of modern web policies, while also providing the alternative of FUTURE, and registering major developmen milestones. For now, that is all, see you next time!
